---
title: July 16th, 2025
layout: page
parent: Blog posts
tags: [calisthenics, woodworking, planche, parallettes, training]
date: 2025-07-16
subject: DIY Wood parallettes for calisthenics!
nav_order: 999
---

{% include top-card.html %}

Today we built a nice little set of parallettes. Or at least started. I've been meaning to start training properly for the planche, and as my wrist flexibility ain't there yet for the floor one, starting with paralletes should make it easier.

While I already have a pair, they aren't sturdy at all as it was one of those 3 bucks clearance sale type of thing from *insert generic supermarket*. They are great for pushups, but when it comes to advanced stuff, where pressure is applied dinamically from odd angles, they no longer cut it, making them even dangerous.


I found a ø5cm wood stick at a local harware store, and luckily there was also a nice slab of wood in the discard pile, bringing my total cost to around **3-4$**.

You can see the whole process in the pictures bellow, but I basically cut 2 chunks of around 30cm each from the wood bar, and for the base, luckily the slab had the perfect size to be cut into 4 equal 11cm parts.
While it is in a seemingly usable state, its far from finished. The zipties are anything but secure, as I will need to either use bolts, either screws. And this is the part where I miss the hardware stores from my hometown, as back in the day you could literally go in and buy 3 screws if need be. I need 8 to 12 screws now, and since you can only buy packs of 50 around these parts, I think I will put the project on hold until I can source a few from friends or something. Besides screws and bolts, there are 2 other things left to do, treating the wood with oil to prevent cracks long term, and wraping it for better grip afterwards. I am still pondering on the wraping part, but we'll see how it all feels after the oiling. I really enjoy the wood feel right now, but that will easily change texture after 2-3 coats of oil.

***pictures coming soon, enjoy ascii in the meantime***

sideview

════<br />
▀&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;▀

topview

█▬▬█

Thank you for reading 😎👉

{% include tags.html %}