---
title: 10-09-2025
layout: page
parent: Blog posts
tags: [data, backups, archival, minimalism]
date: 2025-09-10
subject: Ever since I was little I knew I want to data hoard!
nav_order: 998
---

{% include top-card.html %}

I used to play this unique mmo ft tower defense ft base building game long ago on Facebook which got closed down few years back. Whenever I would come back from school/highschool I would boot up the game, check my village, upgrade some troops or buildings, make a few attacks and move on to homework. 

It recently occured to me a group of people were working on a restoration project and my eyes started sparkling. They were also running an asset recovery channel, and there seemed to be quite a lot of missing assets. When I saw this I basically jumped into my closet to look for my old laptop, as I had a very strong feeling that I may have exactly what they need.

Lo and behold, I actually had *almost* all the files that were missing bar some popups I never bothered downloading! The happiest part, 2 very important assets related to one of the troops, and one other related to a background you would see every time you open a specific map, assets that were thought to be lost *forever* since no one previously had em in the years the restoration project has been active, were right there, on my old laptop, sitting quietly since **2011**.

I've been on a minimalism and decluttering journey in the past 2-3 years, but way more intensively in the past couple of months. Got to the point I'm not sure what else to declutter but we somehow still manage. Takes a while to detach from certain objects, and with enough time it can be doable, but I am not sure I can do that with data, especially data from past devices I used. I still have every file from every phone I ever had (except the ones from my Xiaomi 12, which is honestly one of, if not the best phone I ever had, the 5mp macro cam was a blessing for PCBs, and the IR blaster really made using any tv a breeze), and same thing with computers, gaming consoles and laptops. 

Thank you for reading 😎👉

{% include tags.html %}